This file is cgi.tcl/README.  It contains brief descriptions of the
examples in this directory.  You are welcome to send me additional
scripts.

--------------------
Instructions on running scripts
--------------------

The "examples.cgi" script provides a page of clickable links to all
the other example scripts.  "frame.cgi" is a framed version - it's not
particularly good looking but it does work and - anyway - I needed a
frame example!

There are three ways of running these scripts:

1) Point your browser at http://expect.nist.gov/cgi.tcl

2) Run them by hand, such as by typing "tclsh scriptname" at the
command line.  This is appropriate if you just want to study the raw
HTML output or see how fast they run.

3) Install them in your own web and run them through your browser.
(If you're on a UNIX host, the "make examples" target in the Makefile
fixes up the #! line of each examples and installs them in a public
demo directory.)  You'll want to edit the example.tcl file to redefine
cgi_root appropriately.

If you run the examples locally (options 2 and 3):

	- In order to get the submit buttons to take you back to your
	  site (instead of on to my site!), check the cgi_root call in
	  example.tcl to point back to your site.

	- Some of these examples may do things that are not portable
	  and therefore may not run on all systems.  For example, some
	  of them call "exec".  The "unimail" script assumes the
	  existence of sendmail through cgi.tcl's built-in mail
	  support.  See the ../install.win file for more info.

--------------------
Source files in this directory
--------------------

	cookie.cgi - demonstrates cookies

	display.cgi - display a CGI script

	error.cgi - demonstrates error handing

	examples.cgi - Provides a page with clickable links to all
		these examples.

	form-tour.cgi - demonstrates most form elements (Note that these
		don't do anything - they're just for looks.)

	format-tour.cgi - demonstrates many formats, unrelated to forms

	frame.cgi - a friend's home page that demonstrates frames

	kill.cgi - kill runaway CGI processes

	parray.cgi - displays an array (or the environment by default)

	passwd-form.cgi - creates a form for changing a password
	passwd.cgi - backend to passwd-form where password is actually changed
		Note that this script is an Expect script.
	passwd.tcl - common definitions for passwd*.cgi scripts

	upload.cgi - file upload

	vclock.pl  - Lincoln Stein's virtual clock from CGI.pm paper
	vclock.cgi - Lincoln Stein's virtual clock (but in Tcl)

	visitor.cgi - implements a visitor counter
	visitor.cnt - file containing the count

	example.tcl - common definitions for most of the examples
